# AIM 
The aim of this project is to help reduce accidents that happen as a result of the driver intending to clean the windscreen when rain is falling thereby taking the attention of the driver off the road when he or she is switching on and off the wiper. In rainy days we suffer from act of sprinkling of water on front glass of our wheeler. While driving car, driver cannot see on road vehicles. So he tries operating wiper on glass, for that he should often switch on for operating wiper and because of this it might cause vehicle accident. If we apply any kind of sensors on glass which senses the act o sprinkling water, by automation the wiper will be operating automatically. When the water hit the sensor, it will send signal to the system thus moving the wiper control. Once the sensor did not detect any water, the wipper will stop. This will reduce the weakness which have been stated at beginning. Additional plan to this invention is to make the wiper automatically push up from the windscreen when the engine shut off.
# INTRODUCTION 
A windscreen wiper or windshield wiper is a device used to remove rain, snow,icw and debris from a windscreen or windshield. Almost all motor vehicles, including cars, trucks, train locomotives, watercraft with a cabin and some aircraft, are equipped withsuch wipers, which are usually a legal requirment. A wiper generally consists of a metal arm, pivoting at one end and with a long rubber blade attached to the other. The arm is powered by a motor, often an electric motor, although pneumatic power is also used in some vehicles. The speed is normally adjustable, with several continuous speeds and often one or more "intermittent" settings. Most automobiles use two synchronized radial type arms, while many commercial vehicles use one or more pantograph arms. So here we propose an automatic wiper system that automatically switches ON detecting rain and stops when rain stops. Our project brings forward this system to automate the wipersystem having no need for manual intervention.Most of cars have two wipers on the windscreen, one on the rear window and the other on each headlights.The wiper parts visible fromoutside the car are the rubber blade, the wiper arm holding the blade, a spring linkage, and parts of the wiper pivots.Existing system manually used control stalk to activate wiper and the process of pulling up wiper is difficult to be handled.The driver needs to switch on and off the control stalk and it will reduce the driver's concentration during the driving. Thus, this system is proposed to solve all these problems. The concept of this wiper system is similar with other conventional wiper, yet this system will be upgraded to an automatic control system by using a controller.Whenever the water hit a dedicated sensor that located on windscreen, it will send a signal to move on the wiper motor. Once water is not detected by sensor, the wiper will automatically stop.This will help the driver to give more concentration and reduce the car accident probability.
# 4W's and 1 H's
# What 

